>> Kyle Simpson: So functions.
What is a function?
Is it just the function keyword?
True story.
In my book, remember I talked
about the Functional-Light book,
in my book I had started a repo,
this is actually how it happened.
I was in Poland, teaching, and I had
people asking me to write a book about
functional programming, but
I kept saying no, no, no.
I'm not qualified.
I don't know how to do that.
I'm the least qualified person as a matter
of fact to write a book on functional
programming.
But I got this weird idea in my head I
said, maybe I could write something about
functional programming sort of from
the perspective of how somebody learns it.
Maybe that would be useful,
so I started a repo.
Empty, and I didn't tell anybody about it.
And I did as I do with all of my books,
which is everything's out there for free.
I just started writing and committing
to this repo, late at night in Poland.
And I wrote a sentence at
the beginning of chapter one.
And that sentence basically said,
almost verbatim, it said,
functional programming is
not all about functions.
And I committed it.
That plus a couple of other
things that I committed.
And remember I hadn't told
anybody that I was doing this.
Before I came back to the repo,
because I had to teach the next day.
somebody had found the repo.
Several people had found the repo and
somebody had filed an issue on the repo.
And when I opened the issue, paragraphs
of what are you doing, this is terrible.
I cannot believe there are decades worth
of pedagogy on the topic of functional
programming.
And you are completely spreading
misinformation, telling people functional
programming is not all about the function,
it's all about, just tore into me.
It hurt my feelings for
about five seconds and then I smiled,
because I realized I must
be doing something right.
If I upset the functional programming
police then I must be on the right track.
Now that sentence still exists,
it's the first sentence of chapter 2, and
it's been slightly modified to clarify.
Because I had a whole plan of what
I was going to say in Chapter 1 and
I haven't written it yet.
That was like my you know,
my keyword, my buzz line,
my catch him attention or whatever, right?
That sentence now is the first
sentence of chapter two.
And it now says functional programming
is not all about the function keyword.
Because that's what I meant.
I've been using function
keywords all over my programs but
that doesn't mean I've been
doing functional programming.
Here's a function called add numbers.
It takes in an x, y, zz and
a w, it adds those together to
a variable called total and
it prints it out to the screen.
Well it's using the function keyword,
But the question is, is it a function?
And then we've got extra numbers.
Which takes in some other inputs,
the dot dot dot rx by the way,
if you don't know that, that's the just
gathering up everything into an array.
So extra numbers seems to basically
be calling add numbers, but
adding in a few other values into it.
Sort of wrapping around or
calling this add numbers.
With some of their inputs.
So the question that we need
to confront the most critical
question we can probably
answer in this entire course.
Are those functions and if not, why not?
So let's look at add numbers from them.
It clearly does take some inputs X y z and
W and
it clearly does do something
with those inputs.
It adds them together into a total and
it even prints it out to the console.
Because about it to the Dom or
whatever but it prints at the console.
It's doing something that seems
like at least a minimally-based
level line that it's doing
something with some input.
So it's kind of like a function, right?
Not exactly.
Because the bar for
being a function is higher than that.
If you were thinking about
this in Venn diagram sense,
we've got this bigger outer bubble here.
Of something, and
we gotta figure out what that's called.
And then there's an inner bubble inside of
it of things that qualify as functions.
And this particular add numbers is in
the outer bubble, not the inner one.
It's not a function, so what is it?
Best term you can give for
it is it's a procedure.
A procedure is a collection of operations,
a collection of things that
you need to do in a program.
We all use procedures cuz we all need
to do stuff in our programs, okay?
Just cuz it uses the function
keyword doesn't make it a function.
It at least makes it a procedure
Procedures of course can take inputs,
they can return outputs, they can do
things like print to the console.
They can be called multiple times.
There's lots of benefits to procedures,
but
it's not called procedural programming.
There's a whole thing called
procedural programming,
we're talking about functional programming
which means we got to have functions so.
What's the difference?
Well, to understand the difference where
you and we're actually gonna uncover this
across the next several sections
of our discussion here.
We're gonna begin to
understand that question,
what is the function by first saying, a
function not only has to take some input.
It has to return some output.
Not just print it to the console.
It has to return it.
In other words if it doesn't
have a return keyword,
it is most definitely not a function.
So any functions that you have
that don't ever return keywords,
those are procedures.
Now that's not a complete
definition of function.
We're gonna evolve that definition over
the next, quite a bit of our discussion.
And that evolution of that
definition is not gonna change or
replace or make that statement invalid.
It's more like if I was holding up a rubix
cube and if we looked at one side of
the rubix cube, we'd only be getting the
part of the story of the puzzle, right?
Right now that's just one
side of the Rubik's Cube.
We got to look at all sides of the Rubik's
cube to understand the puzzle.
So number one, it's not only going to take
some inputs and do something with it,
it's got to return something, okay?
What about extra numbers?
It definitely has a return keyword.
So is it a function?
Well you notice that it's taking
some inputs in this case x and
then it's got a number
40 that's hard coded.
And then the rest of any arguments
are passed along in args.
It's passing those along to this
other thing called addNumbers.
And whatever that thing returns,
which from the perspective
of 7 we don't know or care.
Whatever it returns we return.
So is extra numbers a function,
it takes inputs,
it does something and
it returns some sort of output.
You may be aware that in JavaScript
all functions minimally return
the undefined value.
So it is returning undefined, right?
We see online three and
a half that there's no return value, so
it's returning undefined.
Well, there's a different side of
the Rubik's Cube, which is extra numbers,
is not a function, because functions
can only call other functions.
Functions can call procedures,
or poop, they become procedures.
It's turtles all the way down.
Okay, if you have a thing that is not
a function and it's called by something
else, that pollutes that something
else to not being a function.
It makes it a procedure.
It doesn't make it bad.
It doesn't mean that you should
delete it from your program.
It just means it's not a function.
And if it's not a function,
it doesn't get to play at the party.
Of all the functional programming
stuff that we're gonna learn about.
It has to be a function.
That's the it has to be the number one if
we're going to add one in one to get to.
Like this is one of the characteristic
identity things that has to be true
is you can't do any functional programming
with a thing that's not a function.
You follow me?
That sounds obvious, but
we need to state that very clearly.
It has to be a function for you to take
advantage of functional principles.
There's a lot of ways that people use
things that look like functional APIs and
they look like functional patterns.
And they don't do them with those true,
honest-to-goodness functions.
And that's not really functional.
Okay, it's masquerading
as if it's functional.
It's not really functional.
So both of these don't qualify because
both of these violate some aspect of what
we mean about a function.
It's not just enough that you
have a key word there and
just because it uses the word function,
we should still call these procedures.
So what about this one?
Tuple.
Okay?
If you don't know the term tuple,
just like you might not have known the
word coding, you don't know where tuple.
It sounds more complicated is it's
just an array of elements basically.
In JavaScript speak right.
There's a more formal and
other programming languages.
But here you just think of a tuple
as like two values in an array.
So this function takes in an x and y and
it produces a two element array a tuple.
That has x + 1 in the first element and
y- 1 in the second element.
So if I call this tuple function.
With the array five and ten, and
I'm just doing some fancy stuff here
to show you the dot to dot spread.
Can I just pass five and ten, but
essentially x is five and y is ten.
And if I pass those two
values in the tuple,
it's gonna produce an array that
has the values six and nine in it.
Because five plus one and
ten minus one, okay?
So we're gonna produce an array of 6 and
9.
Now look what I'm doing on line 5,
I'm bringing back an array.
But line 5 makes it clear that
I don't actually care about.
Hear about the array.
Line 5 is using a de-structuring syntax,
if you are not familiar with that.
The de-structuring syntax says
hey whatever array you get back,
what I actually care about
is the individual element.
In this case, two individual elements.
Give me those two individual elements,
call them a and b,
that's what I care about.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in essence what I
am saying is as a programmer, what I'm
communicating to the reader of my code is
that tuple actually has two outputs here.
I'm saying I don't care
about the one array,
what I care about is the two
individual values in it.
It's got two outputs.
I'm going a little beyond
the technical definition of
a function to say It takes some inputs,
and return some outputs.
It can be one output, or in this case,
depending on the style of coding,
could end up being multiple options.